(a) Executive Powers. The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City. He shall supervise the administration of the City's affairs and shall exercise control over all departments and divisions. He shall be the chief conservator of the peace within the City and shall cause all laws and ordinances to be enforced. He shall be responsible for the preparation and submission of the annual budget indicating an estimate of receipts and expenditures, and of appropriation measures, and shall at all times keep the Council fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the City. He shall cause all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the City or its inhabitants in any franchise or contract to which the City is a party to be faithfully kept and performed.
Except as may be otherwise provided by this Charter and the provisions of the Civil Service laws of the State of Ohio, the Mayor shall have the power to appoint, promote, transfer, reduce, or remove any officer or employee of the City except those required by this Charter to be elected.
Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, the Mayor shall execute on behalf of the City all contracts, conveyances, evidences of indebtedness, and all other instruments to which the City is a party. He shall have custody of the seal of the City and may affix it to all of said instruments, but the absence of the seal shall not affect the validity of any such instrument.
The Mayor shall serve as Chairman of the Board of Control as established by this Charter in Section 4.01 and he shall be recognized as the official and ceremonial head of the City government by the Governor for military purposes and by the courts for the purpose of serving civil processes.
He shall recommend to Council such measures as he deems necessary or expedient for the welfare of the City and shall keep Council advised of the condition and future of the City.
(b) Legislative Powers. The Mayor shall attend Council meetings but shall have no vote therein. He shall have the right to recommend and introduce legislation and to take part in the discussion of all matters coming before Council.
Every ordinance or resolution adopted by Council shall be signed by the President of Council or other presiding officer, attested by the Clerk of Council, and presented promptly to the Mayor for consideration before it goes into effect. If the Mayor approves such ordinance or resolution, he shall sign and return it to the Clerk of Council within ten (10) days after its adoption by Council, but if he does not approve it, he shall return it to Council within said ten (10) days with his written objections, by delivery to the Clerk of Council, which objections shall be entered in full on the journal of the Council. The Mayor may approve or disapprove the whole or any item of an ordinance or resolution appropriating money, but otherwise his approval or disapproval shall be addressed to the entire ordinance or resolution. If he does not return an ordinance or resolution within said ten day period, it shall take effect in the same manner as if he had signed it. When the Mayor has disapproved an ordinance or resolution, or a part or item thereof as herein provided, the Council shall, not later than its next regular meeting, proceed to reconsider it, and if upon reconsideration the ordinance or resolution or part or item thereof be approved by the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the entire Council, it shall then take effect as if it had received the approval of the Mayor.
(c) Judicial Powers. The Mayor shall have all the judicial powers granted by this Charter, the ordinances of the City, and the general laws of the State of Ohio.