(a) Board of Health. There is hereby established a Board of Health which shall consist of a total of seven (7) members, five (5) citizen members who shall be electors of the City holding no other public office or appointment, the Mayor, and a member of Council selected annually by Council from its committee having responsibility for health matters. Five (5) members shall be appointed by the Mayor with confirmation by the majority of Council to serve without compensation for a period of five (5) years from the date of appointment, except that of those first appointed one (1) shall serve for five (5) years, one (1) for four (4) years, one (1) for three (3) years, one (1) for two (2) years, and one (1) for one (1) year, and thereafter one (1) shall be appointed each year. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Mayor shall be President of the Board by virtue of his office.
The Board, in conformance with Section 3709.05 of the Ohio Revised Code, or otherwise by provisions of this Charter or general law, shall make all necessary rules and regulations for safeguarding the public health, and shall enforce all health and sanitary regulations.
(b) Civil Service Commission. There shall be a Civil Service Commission as provided in Chapter 124 of the Ohio Revised Code or otherwise by general law, except that the Mayor shall appoint each member of the Civil Service Commission, with confirmation by a majority of Council.
Civil Service Commission shall have authority to limit application to the position of Chief and Deputy Chief in the Fire and Police Service to applicants who possess at least one (1) year of departmental experience in the City of Barberton above the rank of firefighter or patrolman. When less than two (2) applicants with the above qualifications have applied for the position of Chief or Deputy Chief in the Fire or Police Service, the Civil Service Commission shall have the authority to advertise and receive qualified applicants from outside the service of the City. (Nov. 7, 2000)
(c) The Plumbing, Electrical, Warm Air Heating, and Air Pollution Control Advisory Boards, Community Action Council, Traffic Safety, and Boxing and Wrestling Commissions, Civil Defense and Metropolitan Regional Transit Authority, hereto established by ordinance of the Council, shall continue to operate under, and to have the functions, powers and duties set forth in the provisions of existing ordinances of the Council applicable thereto, except that the Mayor shall appoint each member of these Boards, with confirmation by a majority of Council, subject to the right of the Council to amend or repeal any or all of such provisions by later ordinance at any time, and to transfer, reassign or delegate such functions, powers and duties, or any part thereof, to another officer, individual, board, or commission.
(Nov. 4, 1980; Nov. 5, 1996)