(a) Membership and Organization. There is hereby established a Parks and Recreation Commission which shall consist of five (5) members who are electors of the City, holding no other public office. Three (3) members shall be appointed by the Mayor, with confirmation by the majority of Council, to serve without compensation for the term of five (5) years, except that of original appointments for terms beginning on January 1, 1974, one (1) shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year, one (1) for a term of three (3) years, and one (1) for a term of five (5) years. The remaining two (2) members of the Parks and Recreation Commission shall be appointed by the Barberton Board of Education with the confirmation of a majority of Council, and shall consist of one (1) member of the Board of Education, with the remaining member being a person appointed by the Board of Education, and shall serve without compensation for the terms of five (5) years, except that of the original appointments for terms beginning on January 1, 1974, one (1) shall be for a term of two (2) years and one (1) for a term of four (4) years. In any case where the Board of Education shall fail within sixty (60) days to make the appointments or to fill a vacancy on the Commission, the Mayor shall make the appointments with confirmation by Council. The Board of Park Commissioners heretofore existing shall be abolished on the effective date of this Charter.
The Mayor and one member of Council selected annually by the Council shall be ex officio members of the Parks and Recreation Commission and shall have all of the powers, duties, and rights of the other members, except they shall have no voting rights on issues before the Commission.
The Parks and Recreation Commission shall meet at least monthly and shall elect a chairman and a secretary at its first meeting each year for a one-year period. Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments. Meetings shall be open to the public and a record shall be kept showing the vote of each member on each question.
(b) Powers and Duties. The Parks and Recreation Commission shall appoint a Director, and if deemed necessary, an Assistant Director, and such other employees as are necessary for the execution of its duties, and it shall control, equip and manage parks, playgrounds, playfields, gymnasiums, swimming pools, indoor recreation centers, and any lands or buildings owned or used by the City for park or recreation purposes. The Commission shall also have the authority to establish fees and charges relative to operation of various programs and to expend funds received from sources other than Municipal funds.
The Director and Assistant Director shall serve at the pleasure of the Parks and Recreation Commission. These shall be unclassified positions. Such other full-time employees as authorized by the Commission shall be certified and classified under Civil Service rules and regulations.
(c) Qualifications for Director. The Director of Parks and Recreation should have the following minimum qualifications at the time of his original appointment to the position of Director: Bachelor degree in Park and Recreation Administration, Recreation Administration, or Park Management, and certification as a Parks and Recreation Administrator by the Ohio Parks and Recreation Association. In the event such certifications are revised or discontinued, the Commission shall designate or provide for equivalent certifications.