There shall be a Director of Public Service who shall be the head of the Department of Public Service. He shall be appointed by and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. The Director of Public Service shall have charge of all public works and improvements and the construction thereof, and of all engineering and inspection in connection therewith. He shall be charged with the construction, improvement, repair and maintenance of streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, bridges; of water mains, pumps, systems, pipes, purification and filtration plants, and the water distribution system; of sewers, sewage systems, drains, ditches, culverts, streams, watercourses; and of all public buildings and other public places belonging to the Municipality or dedicated to public use. He shall manage and control market houses, sewage treatment plants, waterworks, and all public utilities of the Municipality supported in whole or in part by taxation, and shall enforce all the obligations of privately owned or operated public utilities enforceable by the Municipality. He shall have charge of the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, plans, drawings and estimates for public work; the cleaning, resurfacing, repairing, sprinkling and lighting of streets and public places; the collection and disposal of waste and the preservation of all property belonging to the Municipality and pertaining to the functions thereof. He shall perform such other duties, consistent with his office, as may be required by this Charter, by ordinance, or as directed by the Mayor.
(a) Division of Building Inspection. There shall be within the Department of Public Service a Division of Building Inspection under the direction of a Building Commissioner, who shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be under the supervision of the Director of Public Service. He shall carry out the duties of a Building Commissioner as provided by ordinance or, if not by ordinance, as provided by general law. This shall be an unclassified position.
(b) Division of Engineering. There shall be within the Department of Public Service a Division of Engineering under the direction of the City Engineer who shall be a registered professional civil engineer holding a Bachelor's degree in Civil Engineering from an accredited college or university and a registered surveyor, who shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be under the supervision of the Director of Public Service. He shall carry out the duties of City Engineer as provided by ordinance or, if not by ordinance, as provided by general law. This shall be an unclassified position.
(c) Division of Utilities. There shall be within the Department of Public Service a Division of Utilities under the direction of a Superintendent of Utilities, who shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be under the supervision of the Director of Public Service. He shall carry out the duties of a Superintendent of Utilities as provided by ordinance or, if not by ordinance, as provided by general law. This shall be an unclassified position.
To be eligible for appointment, the applicant must hold a college degree in science or engineering with broad experience in operation and maintenance of waterworks and wastewater works. Courses in chemistry and sanitary engineering are desirable, together with management ability. (Nov. 4, 1980; Nov. 7, 1995)