The electors shall have the power to approve or reject at the polls any ordinance or resolution passed by the Council, except as hereinafter provided. Within sixty (60) days after the passage by the Council of such ordinance or resolution or its repassage over the Mayor's veto, whichever is later, a petition signed by at least that number of electors which equals ten percent (10%) of the electors who voted at the next preceding regular Municipal election may be filed with the Clerk of the Council, requesting that such ordinance or resolution be either repealed or submitted to a vote of the electors. If said petition is signed by twenty percent (20%) or more of such electors, the date of the election may be fixed therein, not less than ninety (90) days from the time of filing thereof. When such petition is filed, the Clerk shall first ascertain the sufficiency of the petition, and if found sufficient, the Council shall thereupon, within thirty (30) days of the filing of such petition, reconsider such ordinance or resolution. If, upon such reconsideration, the ordinance is not repealed, the Council shall provide for submitting it to a vote of the electors on the date so fixed; or, if not so fixed, at the first general election in any year occurring more than ninety (90) days from the filing of such petition. No such ordinance or resolution shall go into effect until approved by a majority of those voting thereon, in which event such ordinance or resolution shall go into effect on the fifth day after the day on which the Board of Elections certifies the official results thereof. When the Council by general law or under provisions of general ordinance is required to pass more than one ordinance or resolution necessary to make and pay for any public improvement, the referendum provision shall apply only to the first ordinance or resolution required to be passed and not to any subsequent ordinances or resolutions relating thereto. In addition, ordinances providing for an annual tax levy or for improvements petitioned for by the owners of a majority of the foot front of the property benefited and to be specially assessed therefor, bond and note ordinances, and appropriation ordinances limited to the subject of appropriations shall not be subject to referendum; but, except as herein provided, all other ordinances and resolutions necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety, shall be subject to referendum, except that such emergency ordinances and resolutions shall go into effect at the time indicated therein. If, when approved by a majority of those voting thereon, it shall be considered repealed as regards any further action thereunder; but such measure shall be deemed sufficient authority for payment, in accordance therewith, of any expense incurred previous to the referendum vote thereon.
Ordinances or resolutions submitted to the Council by initiative petition and passed by the Council either with or without change, but not submitted to a vote of the electors shall be subject to referendum in the same manner as other ordinances and resolutions. (Nov. 5, 1985; Nov. 7, 1995)