The electors shall have the power to remove from office by a recall election, any elected officer of the City. If an elected officer shall have served six (6) months of his term, a petition demanding his removal may be filed with the Clerk of Council, who shall note thereon the name and address of the person filing the petition and the date of such filing, and deliver to such person a receipt therefor and attach a copy thereof to said petition. Such petition may be circulated in separate parts, but the separate parts shall be bound together, numbered, and filed as one instrument. Each part shall contain the name and office of the person whose removal is sought and a statement in not more than two hundred (200) words of the grounds for the removal. Such petition shall be signed by at least that number of electors which equals twenty percent (20%) of the electors voting at the next preceding regular Municipal election for the office of the officer sought to be recalled. A petition for removal of a ward councilman shall be signed by electors of the ward represented by that councilman. Within ten (10) days after the day on which such petition shall have been filed, the Clerk shall determine whether or not it meets the requirements hereof. If the Clerk shall find the petition insufficient, he shall promptly certify the particulars in which the petition is defective, deliver a copy of his certificate to the person who filed the petition, and make a record of such delivery. Such person shall be allowed a period of twenty (20) days after the day on which such delivery was made in which to make the petition sufficient. If the Clerk shall find the petition sufficient, he shall promptly so certify to the Council, shall deliver a copy of such certificate to the officer whose removal is sought, and shall make a record of such delivery. If such officer shall not resign within five (5) days after the day on which such delivery shall have been made, the Council shall thereupon fix a day for holding a recall election, not less than sixty (60) days nor more than seventy-five (75) days after the date of such delivery. In the case of a recall election for a ward councilman the election shall be held in the ward represented by that councilman. At such recall election, this question shall be placed upon the ballot: “Shall (naming the officer) be allowed to continue as (naming the office)?” with the provision on the ballot for voting affirmatively or negatively, and in the event a majority of the vote is negative, such officer shall be considered as removed, his office shall be deemed vacant, and such vacancy shall be filled as provided in this Charter. The officer removed by such recall election shall not be eligible for appointment to the vacancy created thereby.