The person who shall have been elected to the office of President of Council at the general election in November 1989 shall serve a four (4) year term commencing January 1, 1990. The person holding said office may be a candidate to succeed himself.
Beginning in January 1990 the Council shall at the time of its organization choose one of its members as Vice President of Council who shall preside at meetings of Council in the absence of the President of Council.
If the Mayor is absent or inaccessible or for any reason is unable to perform his duties as Mayor, the President of Council shall become the acting Mayor, and while so acting shall have and exercise all powers of the Mayor, but he shall not thereby cease to be a member of Council. If the Mayor is unable to perform his duties as Mayor for a period exceeding sixty (60) days due to a mental or physical incapacity, Council may pay the President of Council additional compensation in an amount it deems reasonable while performing the duties as acting Mayor.
In the event the President of Council is absent or inaccessible or for any reason unable to perform his duties as acting Mayor, the Vice President of Council shall become the acting Mayor, and while so acting shall have all the powers and duties of the Mayor, but he shall not thereby cease to be a member of Council.
In case of vacancy of the office of Mayor, the President of Council shall forthwith become Mayor and his office as Councilman shall become vacant. If the office of President of Council becomes vacant, the Vice President of Council shall forthwith become President of Council in which case the Council seat vacated by the Vice President of Council shall be filled in the manner provided in Section 5.06 of the Charter; and the Council shall choose a new Vice President from its remaining members.
The President of Council shall have all the powers, duties, functions, obligations and rights of any other member of Council, but he shall not have the right to vote unless his vote is necessary to determine the outcome of any matter before the Council as in the case of a tie vote or when a certain minimum number of votes are required; shall preside at all meetings of Council; and shall appoint the various committees of Council, coordinating the work of the various committees appointed by him. (Nov. 8, 1988; Nov. 7, 1995)